hey guys welcome to my channel my name
is jara
i'm a full-time director of paid social
at a fully remote
marketing agency we specialize in
digital advertising
um primarily me for facebook ads and the
question that i get asked the most
often is what kind of budget someone
should start off with
when they are trying out facebook ads
for the first time
now you know i understand why this
this question is so complicated you want
to have
a big enough budget to make sure that
you fully test out the platform to make
sure it's right for you
and also you want to you know get some
data and some learnings the first time
around
but also you know if you're just
starting off your business
you might not have that big of a budget
to really
play around with at first so
my every time i get asked that question
i actually
you know throw it back and ask
what kind of budget can you afford and
that's where
we really want to start of course you
know
you're not going to be able to fully
test out the platform with a couple
hundred dollars
in one month but i also think that it's
not quite as
expensive as people might make it out to
be
especially if it's your first month
trying it out
so i'm actually going to show you two
different ways to figure out your budget
one of them is the facebook recommended
version
and really i just want to show you this
because
a lot of people like knowing the best
practices
um and it was something when i was
learning facebook ads that i was really
interested in
learning as well um full disclosure
like yeah there are some things that are
best practices
but there are not as many rules
as like i thought when i first started
doing facebook ads so it's again for
this
scenario it's more about what you can
afford and
the second way i'm going to show you how
to
and the second way i'm going to show you
is
actually what i do for my own personal
clients and also professionally at the
agency
so um let's dive in
so the first way i wanted to show you
guys is
the facebook recommended way and they
actually have it boiled down to a
formula
now i hear the facebook reps push this
when as one of the first levels of
defense when your campaigns aren't
working
so yeah at the agency we have a few
reps that help us um you know on
campaign performance
um if we have a difficult account so
and one of the things they'll recommend
is you know this budget formula they'll
often say like oh you don't have a high
enough budget and
the way that this goes is that um
you know facebook actually works the
best if you have about
50 purchases through the pixel every
single week
um and so the way that this formula
works
is that you'll want to um
take the price of your most common
product
so say you have a product that's a
hundred dollars let's just make it
really easy
so you have a hundred dollar product and
you want to
make 50 purchases for that during
the first week so you'll take a hundred
times fifty and that's five thousand
dollars so
you can see why i don't recommend this
for new businesses because that's only a
budget for one week and it's getting
very expensive
so five thousand times four
is a 20k budget so i really understand
that that is too much money for
um a business that's just starting out
so um
yeah but you don't have to worry because
you can definitely test out the platform
to see if it's right for you
and um it's not going to cost that much
money
so for the way that we use at the agency
and also for the way that i use with my
personal clients to figure out those
initial budgets
it is based on the um the average cost
of the product
and you know four products that are two
hundred dollars and under
so one product costs either two hundred
dollars or less
you know we really are looking for an
initial budget
that um at the bare bare minimum
is around two thousand dollars for one
month
um and i think that in this case it
would actually work
better if the product was under a
hundred dollars
however i have seen um recently
during the covid crisis when less when
less advertisers
were spending on facebook ads we were
actually
able to get away with a slightly higher
price
product more in the 200
range with a monthly budget of 2 000
and we were able to see just under a two
row as for that
over um three months during covid so
with products that cost more so 200
or more yeah you are gonna
see better results if you spend more
money out of the gate
um so if you have a product that
is three hundred dollars four hundred
dollars five hundred dollars
um you know you really are
looking to spend anywhere from
5 000 to 10 000 to do that initial test
um but again it really is
about what kind of money you as a
business can spend to do that initial
test
unfortunately you know spending
ten dollars a day twenty dollars a day
it's not going to get you
good results especially if you have one
of those higher priced
products another way to look at this
because i know that sometimes looking at
the budget monthly is hard to
conceptualize
um you know if you're just starting off
and you have a lower price product under
you know you really want to be spending
about 66 dollars a day
or more ideally too
as you know if you have
ideally if you have a higher priced um
product you really do want to start
spending a hundred to a hundred and
fifty dollars a day
so that um you can be sure to test the
right kind of things to make
sure that um you're not only giving
the algorithm enough data to optimize to
make sure it's the right platform for
you
but also um you know
for those higher price products
people aren't going to be as impulsive
to purchase
so not only are you going to have to you
know set up a campaign
targeting cold traffic but you're also
going to have to set up a retargeting
campaign
one of my favorite statistics recently
is that more than 80 percent of
people do not purchase a product
on the first touch point which is often
an ad
which means that you know they're going
to have to do some research about your
product
and they're going to have to be
retargeted either on google on facebook
or an email to actually get them to make
that purchase
so again if you have a higher price
product you really are going to want to
be
spending more of a daily budget
so that you can not only implement
prospecting which is for cold traffic
but also having a really solid
retargeting funnel so that you can put
some of the information
that's going to help people to convert
right into your ads
another consideration for your budget
is what kind of traffic your website
currently has
you know maybe you have a loyal
following
on social media that drives quite a bit
of traffic
or maybe you have done some seo in the
past that's driving a lot of traffic to
your website
um all these things are also a factor
because if you are starting a brand new
website
likely you aren't going to be able to
optimize for the purchase conversion
right out of the gate so what this means
is if you know
if your main goal on facebook is to
get purchases and make money then
you'll want to have the conversion
objective
for your campaign and you'll want to
optimize
for purchases but unfortunately if your
website is brand new
and you're a brand new business you
don't have
much data being tracked through your
pixel or
being tracked for google analytics for
the pixel and the algorithm to actually
find out where your customers are
so in that case you know we'd be
optimizing for add to cart but that
means we
need to start driving traffic so
um you know if you are a brand new
business i would encourage to spend
even a thousand dollars more on top of
that bare minimum two to three thousand
also look in the description below i
have another video for you guys
where i actually build out a facebook
account
from start to finish now this is exactly
how i build out accounts
for businesses that have never done
advertising before
so if you are a business that's
looking to start building out your
campaigns on facebook and you don't
really know where to start
copy this tactic if you hired me
tomorrow this is exactly what i would
implement on your account
and it's a great place to start so be
sure to click below
and go to that other video also if you
guys have any other questions
about facebook ads or about starting
your businesses online and using digital
marketing
be sure to comment below i'm going to be
doing a video every single day
the month of june and i need help with
some ideas
so please let me know what you guys want
to see all right thanks
[Music]
bye
there is like no
battery i get nervous hives
and like it's so funny because
i'm breaking out into hives because i'm
so nervous over this video
that like it kind of looks like hickey
though
also look at my setup
this is like my dad's lighting
that he uses working in the garage
ads but you in the past you've had a lot
of success with
seo with press with
um you know
other marketings